tutorial for kiali (#207)
kyma-project/examples: kiali/README.md

# Install custom Kiali in Kyma

## Overview

The Kyma Kiali component brings limited configuration options in contrast to the upstream [`kiali-operator`](https://github.com/kiali/helm-charts/tree/master/kiali-operator) chart. Modifications might be reset at next upgrade cycle.

> An alternative can be a parallel installation of the upstream chart offering all customization options. This tutorial outlines how to achieve such installation in co-existent to the Kyma stack.

Reviewer: Using `parallel` users might end up installing two kiali instances on their cluster is that acceptable.

Reviewer 2: Two instances do not affect each other. So this should be fine.

> An alternative can be a parallel installation of the upstream chart offering all customization options. This tutorial outlines how to achieve such installation in co-existent to the Kyma stack.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An alternative can be a parallel installation of the upstream chart offering all customization options. The following instructions outline how to achieve such installation in co-existent to the Kyma stack.
```

I'm not a fan of the word "tutorial" (long story) :D

## Prerequisites

> - Kyma as the target deployment environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Kyma as the target deployment environment
```

Do we need any minimum Kyma version?

- kubectl > 1.22.x
- helm 3.x

## Installation

### Preparation

1. Export your Namespace as a variable. Replace the `{namespace}` placeholder in the following command and run it:

    ```bash

>     export KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS="{namespace}"

Reviewer: can we use `KYMA_KIALI_NS` instead ?

    ```

> 1. Export the Helm release name which you want to use. It can be any name, be aware that all resources in the cluster will be prefixed with that name. Replace the `{release-name}` placeholder in the following command and run it:

Reviewer: saying any name can be confusing as user might (in rare case) reuse some existing release_name. May be we can warn about this ?

> 1. Export the Helm release name which you want to use. The release name has to be unique for the chosen namespace. Be aware that all resources in the cluster will be prefixed with that name. Replace the `{release-name}` placeholder in the following command and run it:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Export the Helm release name that you want to use. The release name must be unique for the chosen Namespace. Be aware that all resources in the cluster will be prefixed with that name. Replace the `{release-name}` placeholder in the following command and run it:
```

    ```bash
    export HELM_RELEASE_NAME="{release-name}"
    ```

> 1. Update your helm installation with the required helm repository:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Update your Helm installation with the required Helm repository:
```

    ```bash
    helm repo add kiali https://kiali.org/helm-charts
    helm repo update
    ```

### Install the kiali-operator

> Kiali recommends to install Kiali via the kiali-operator always. So this tutorial will do this as well by using the kiali-operator helm chart.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** Kiali recommends to install Kiali always with the Kiali operator; that's why the following step uses the Kiali operator Helm chart.
```

> 1. Run the Helm upgrade command which will install the chart if not present yet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Run the Helm upgrade command, which installs the chart if not present yet.
```

    ```bash
    helm upgrade --install --create-namespace -n ${KYMA_KIALI_NS} ${HELM_RELEASE_NAME} kiali/kiali-operator --set cr.spec.auth.strategy=anonymous -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/examples/main/kiali/values.yaml
    ```

> Hereby, use the [values.yaml](./values.yaml) provided with this tutorial which contains customized settings deviating from the default settings, or create your own one.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can either use the `[values.yaml](./values.yaml)` provided in this `kiali` folder, which contains customized settings deviating from the default settings, or create your own `values.yaml` file.
```

"which" is ambiguous, could refer to "the values.yaml" or "this tutorial", but in this case that might be acceptable.

### Verify the installation

> 1. You should see the kiali-operator and kiali pod coming up in the namespace. Assure that all pods are ending in a "Running" state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. You should see the `kiali-operator` and `kiali` Pod coming up in the Namespace. All Pods must eventually be in a "Running" state.
```

> 1. Browse the Kiali dashboard. Following command will expose the dashboard on `http://localhost:9090`

Reviewer: this sounds wrong the port-forward command needs to be adjusted

> 1. Browse the Kiali dashboard. Following command will expose the dashboard on `http://localhost:20001`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Browse the Kiali dashboard. The following command exposes the dashboard on `http://localhost:20001`:
```

   ```bash
   kubectl -n ${KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS} port-forward svc/kiali-server 20001
   ```

> ### Deploy a custom workload and call it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy a custom workload and invoke it
```

> 1. Follow the tutorial [orders-service](./../orders-service/) and see the service communication visualized in Kiali.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. To see the service communication visualized in Kiali, follow the tutorial [orders-service](./../orders-service/).
```
I think users might first want to know why to follow that tutorial.

## Advanced Topics

### Integrate Jaeger

> If you use [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/) for distributed tracing, Kiali can utilize your Jaeger instance to [provide traces](https://kiali.io/docs/features/tracing/). Follow the [Jaeger configuration](https://kiali.io/docs/configuration/p8s-jaeger-grafana/jaeger/) guide for integration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you use [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/) for distributed tracing, Kiali can use your Jaeger instance to [provide traces](https://kiali.io/docs/features/tracing/).

For integration instructions, read [Jaeger configuration](https://kiali.io/docs/configuration/p8s-jaeger-grafana/jaeger/).
```

### Integrate Grafana

> Kiali can provide links to Istio dashboards in Grafana. The [Grafana configuration](https://kiali.io/docs/configuration/p8s-jaeger-grafana/grafana/) page of the Kiali documentation describes how to integrate Grafana.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Kiali can provide links to Istio dashboards in Grafana. 

For integration instructions, read [Kiali: Grafana configuration](https://kiali.io/docs/configuration/p8s-jaeger-grafana/grafana/).
```

### Expose Kiali

> Kiali supports different authentication strategies. When exposing the Kiali server, we recommend to use an external OpenID Connect compatible identity provider.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Kiali supports different authentication strategies. When exposing the Kiali server, we recommend to use an external identity provider compatible with OpenID Connect (OIDC).
```
As an adjective, "Open ID Connect-compatible" needs a hyphen and then it looked weird :D Rephrased, it's more normal and we can even add the acronym in brackets.

1. Set up Kiali with the [OpenID Connect strategy](https://kiali.io/docs/configuration/authentication/openid/).

> 1. Follow the [Expose a workload](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/03-tutorials/00-api-exposure/apix-03-expose-workload-apigateway/) Kyma tutorial to expose Kiali.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. To expose Kiali, follow the [Expose a workload](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/03-tutorials/00-api-exposure/apix-03-expose-workload-apigateway/) instructions.
```

## Cleanup

> Run the following commands to completely remove the example and all its resources from the cluster:

Reviewer 3: It's only one command right? :D 
Slightly rephrased so it doesn't matter how many commands there are:

```suggestion
When you're done, you can remove the example and all its resources from the cluster.
```

> 1. Remove the stack by calling helm:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Remove the stack by calling Helm:
```

# Install custom Kiali in Kyma

## Overview

The Kyma Kiali component brings limited configuration options in contrast to the upstream [`kiali-operator`](https://github.com/kiali/helm-charts/tree/master/kiali-operator) chart. Modifications might be reset at next upgrade cycle.

> An alternative can be a parallel installation of the upstream chart offering all customization options. The following instructions outline how to achieve such installation in co-existent to the Kyma stack.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An alternative can be a parallel installation of the upstream chart offering all customization options. The following instructions outline how to achieve such installation in co-existence to the Kyma stack.
```

I missed this before

## Prerequisites

> - Kyma as the target deployment environment

Reviewer 3: Do we need any minimum Kyma version?

Reviewer 2: No, should also work with older versions

    ```bash
    helm repo add kiali https://kiali.org/helm-charts
    helm repo update
    ```

### Install the kiali-operator

> **NOTE:** Kiali recommends to install Kiali always with the Kiali operator; that's why the following step uses the Kiali operator Helm chart.

1. Run the Helm upgrade command, which installs the chart if not present yet.
    ```bash
    helm upgrade --install --create-namespace -n ${KYMA_KIALI_NS} ${HELM_RELEASE_NAME} kiali/kiali-operator --set cr.spec.auth.strategy=anonymous -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/examples/main/kiali/values.yaml
    ```

You can either use the `[values.yaml](./values.yaml)` provided in this `kiali` folder, which contains customized settings deviating from the default settings, or create your own `values.yaml` file.

### Verify the installation

1. You should see the `kiali-operator` and `kiali` Pod coming up in the Namespace. All Pods must eventually be in a "Running" state.
1. Browse the Kiali dashboard. The following command exposes the dashboard on `http://localhost:20001`:
   ```bash
   kubectl -n ${KYMA_KIALI_NS} port-forward svc/kiali-server 20001
   ```

### Deploy a custom workload and invoke

> 1. To see the service communication visualized in Kiali, follow the tutorial [orders-service](./../orders-service/).

Reviewer 3: this link seems broken?

Reviewer 2: Works for me in the file view and points to https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/1521a015212de05f9fadd26a08dcdc0d6578ec08/orders-service

Reviewer 3: Ah I see, it's a folder with its README. 🤦 
Then I'd slightly rephrase it:

```suggestion
1. To see the service communication visualized in Kiali, follow the instructions in [orders-service](./../orders-service/).
```

## Advanced Topics

### Integrate Jaeger

If you use [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/) for distributed tracing, Kiali can use your Jaeger instance to [provide traces](https://kiali.io/docs/features/tracing/).

> For integration instructions, read [Jaeger configuration](https://kiali.io/docs/configuration/p8s-jaeger-grafana/jaeger/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For integration instructions, read [Kiali: Jaeger configuration](https://kiali.io/docs/configuration/p8s-jaeger-grafana/jaeger/).
```
Consistency with line 72
